We'll welcome back.
I want to improve this function just a little bit.
You see ideally we don't want to fill the cache in what we called the global scope.
That is to be living outside of this function.
Ideally it's good practice to have memory or in this case the cash to live inside of this function not
polluting the global scope.
And there's many ways to do this based on the language in javascript that we can use something called
closures.
And this is what it would look like and I'm showing you this because when we get to dynamic programming
you're going to see this pattern a lot.
Luckily with dynamic programming the pattern is usually always the same.
So once you learn this then it becomes easier and easier.
So the way we bring this inside of the function is to well bring it in like that.
But the problem is now that every time we run this we're yet long time each time because the cache gets
reset every time the function gets called.
So the cache becomes an empty object to get around this we can use closures in javascript and we can
return another function.
So a function that returns a nother function and here will pass the parameter and
and we'll have the logic inside of this function.
That's it.
And because of something called closure we're able to access this cache inside of this Charles function.
Now this isn't a course about javascript.
So you can read up on closure on your own but this is just a way for us to avoid that global scope so
that this time around we can do something like this.
We can't simply say cost minimalized equals memorized to 80 and we'll run this function.
And we can actually even remove the parameter from here so that we have flexibility.
Let me show you we have the memoirists year which hopefully I guess Bell memorized so that now this
function because I ran it is going to return for me this function memorized equals this function.
That's literally what memorized.
Add to 80 returns and I have access to this cache variable so that in here I can just say memorized
5 and memorized six.
If I had run I still get the same thing but if I do 5 and 5 and I have run like that it's memorized.
This function remembers that the parameter has not changed.
It's the same parameter and it's going to check the cache and say I don't need to do all that silly
calculation.
I already have it.
Here you go just using a hash table.
Here it is.
And while we just learned here is really powerful because it allows us to be very efficient with our
code something that we know interviewers love companies love and dynamic programming allows us to use
what we know now about memoization to optimize our code.
Let's find out more in the next video.